Welcome back everyone.
Over the last few lectures we did a lot of work for the users.
So that was setting things up like the views for the users and the templates as well as special views
and templates like viewing all the users blog posts.
Now we want to do is actually make sure that we've set up enough so we can test run the site.
We still won't be able to create blog posts or view blog posts in particular because we haven't created
anything for that.
But we can still test from the site to at least make sure that we're able to register and log in as
users and ordered to do that.
We can do a couple more things.
First remember that we created a lot of forms.
So we're going to want to set a secret key in our in it thought Paey file for the forms to work.
Then we're also going to fix the navigation bar in our baseline h T.M. right now regardless of what
users logged in or logged out.
They still get to see every single possible link or log out register log in all at once.
So we want to fix that with some quick if statement checks there.
Then we also haven't actually used flask D-B commands to initiate and migrate our models to the database.
So we'll be doing that as well.
Once we do these three main things we should be able to get enough that we can actually debug and make
sure our site is working so far.
Keep in mind anything that's really related to a blog post is still not going to work correctly because
there are no views or templates for blog posts right now.
OK let's get started.
OK.
Here we are back of the project.
Let's begin by making sure we set a secret key that we all the forms we created work so we'll come back
to our PI file.
Remember this is the one underneath the puppy company blog.
So that and at that pie we've created our application here.
All we need to do is say app config and set the secret key as we've done many times before.
So say secret key equal to my secret and then later on when we actually cover real deployments We'll
talk about how to actually set this as an environment variable so you don't have in your actual code.
But right now since we're just kind of practicing locally we'll set it right here.
OK.
Once you've saved that let's go back to our base each time I'll file and Interbase the H to him file
remember this has the links to the C Ss and J.
Crew files for bootstrap as well as our navigation bar under based thudded T.M. And if like collapse
the left hand tab.
Remember that right now we're showing everything once a user is on the Web site we're showing them both
log out accounts log in and register all at once which doesn't really make sense now that we have capabilities
for users to be authenticated.
So instead let's add add in a little bit of logic here to make sure that it's going to work as we expect
once the users log in.
Then they can log out check their account or create a post or they can log in and register.
So let's fix that now.
We're going to come first up here and we can do this which is really a simple IF statement and then
adding in some links.
So right here I'm going to say the following.
I'll say if the current user is underscore authenticated remember we get to use that because we're using
Flast loggin kind of all of this is handled for us in the bacchanals McCrary spell that right is authenticate.
There we go.
So if the current users authenticated that means they're already logged then we'll give them the option
to log out check their account or create a post.
So else we're going to do reps will say else
else that means they're not logged in.
We'll tell them to either log in or register.
And remember with Jinja templating we have to end this statement.
So after that we'll just say right here.
And if and then save those changes.
OK.
So we have the current users authenticated else and then and if so log out account create post log in
register.
Now it's actually add in some links here.
These refs will take us somewhere so I'll start with the log out one so we'll say your all.
And in this case it's users log out.
And I'm actually going to copy this because the rest of them are actually quite similar.
So for accounts it's the same thing.
Instead sort of the log out you were going to have them view the account view and then for create post.
We actually don't have that view yet so I'll leave that as just an empty hash tag log in.
We do have that in our users view that's not logged out.
That's going to be log in and then register.
Same thing here except it's going to be users that register.
So that way our navigation bar actually takes us places.
So we're going to save those changes there.
OK.
Now that it's all set up for an aggregation bar let's actually commit the changes for the models that
apply follow we created earlier since technically we haven't actually pushed any changes using Flast
the being Flast migrations.
So remember in our in at the PI file you should already have everything set up for your database as
well as a sequel alchemy and migrate.
Now what we need to do is actually run those flasks D-B commands.
So right here a flask examples on the say flask D-B in it hit run or hit enter really to run all that.
So you should see something like that.
And then we're going to say flask D.B migraine and let's give ourselves a little message like first
migration.
Enter let that migrate should see a bunch of lines and then it says done.
And then finally we'll do the following.
We'll say flask D-B upgrades actually push those migration changes.
So run all that and you hopefully don't get any errors there if you do get an error.
That means there's probably something wrong either with your PI file setup or your models that PI file
and I would recommend that you use our provided notes if you are getting some errors at the step because
that's usually the kind of parts of the bug like very minor typos somewhere in it that PI file or your
models that PI file.
So make sure copy and paste from our notes and Kiska any errors there.
All right.
Now that that's been run we should be able to register new users.
So let's actually run our application and see if all the changes worked.
So we're going to say Python app that PI enter and it looks like it's running.
So that's always good news.
Let me bring in my browser here and we'll play around with the site and see if we can register a new
user sort to come over and right off the bat.
You should see the navigation bar working.
You should not only see log in and register as options because we're no longer logged in as a user.
So if a click the about I get info about the company for come back home I could see the home page.
So that's all working.
Let's now register a new user using our form here.
So what we'll do is just use a very simple e-mail olic to use something simple like one at one dot com
for the first user have the user name one have the password would be one.
Just so it's easy to keep track and then for the actual use to it Today.com and so on.
Remember that this form actually looks really ugly because there was no bootstrap classes on this form.
But recall that we did show you how to do that specifically for the update view.
So we'll see that in just a second.
OK let's try registering this user and see if that works.
So it did register.
That's good.
Keep in mind there was like a microsecond flash there because we did have that flash command but since
it's just reroutes us to log in we actually don't see that.
So now that we can log in.
Let's try it out.
So we're going to say one at one dot com.
The password is one.
See this log in works.
So the logging did work.
It took us back to the home page and now check.
Take a look at our navigation bar.
I can log out.
Check my account or create a post for click Create a post right now.
Nothing's going to happen because we haven't set up any of those used yet.
So let's check if our account page is working.
So I click on account and it says Welcome to the page for one.
Right now there's an empty picture there because we haven't set the actual default PLG we've said it
on the views and the templates so there is a link to some string.
What I haven't done there is actually put the picture.
So we're going to do that in just a second.
But let's actually try uploading our own picture.
So we have the user name.
It's one let's call this one edit and we'll also edit our email will say one edit at one dot com and
then I'm going to choose a file to upload as my picture.
So what I'm going to do is just select this python logo.
All open here and then lets it update and see if my pictures updated.
So it looks like welcome to the page for one edit.
So that worked.
But what's not working is our ability to update profile pics.
So let's fix that and make sure that our routes are correctly working for updating the pictures because
it looks like right now I'm not seeing that picture update but my username and email it's looks like
they are updated correctly.
So let's go back to our files and make sure that the profile picture and that actual directory exist.
So we're going to go back to Adam here.
We're going to open up the left hand tab here and you'll notice we have static profile picks and right
now nothing got saved under profile pics.
Let's try to first debug the default picture not showing up and then we'll debug the updating not showing
up.
Now the default not showing up that one is actually quite simple to fix because there was no default
underneath profile pics.
So if I take a look at a user model under models that pie remember that the profile image has a default
value of default and then default underscore profile that DNG.
So I should probably stick that PFG file there.
That way I can actually have a profile picture show up on my computer underneath a folder.
I have this cute little picture of a dog and I've labeled it default underscore profiled up hangi.
So I'm actually going to grab this guy and then move it to profile pics.
So now I have a default profile dot PMG there.
Keep in mind it's really up to you.
Whatever profile you want to use you just got to make sure that the name matches up.
So right now have default underscore profiles that PFG and that name is matching up with my default.
So I'm going to save those changes.
And let's see if I register a new user if I actually pick up on that PMG file.
That means we'll bring back our browser and I'm going to log out.
This one user and create another user in upon you registration.
Let's see if we see that puppy profile pic.
If not going to show you a really nice way to help debug these sort of missing images.
So let's log out and let's see if that works.
So lock that work I'm going to register.
And now let's register a new user.
We're going to call this user to Today.com to passwords also to and then confirm password.
Remember you can always add in additional validators to make sure that the password is a certain length
like the length required validator.
Right now we're just keeping things simple.
Let's register this to user and that worked.
So now let's actually log in with them.
So we'll say to it to pass into We'll log in and if we get a count now.
Now my actual pathway is working for that default profile pic which makes sense because we just set
it up so that's good news.
However let's see if now if I can actually update my profile pic.
I know the username and e-mail updates were working because when I refresh the page I saw my updated
username and e-mails but let's actually choose and you file are going to choose choose this one on here
have their safe pictures.
So I'll open that one update.
And right now it's still not working.
So it looks like I have some sort of issue with my account view or account template where upon hitting
update I'm not actually updating that profile picture.
And a hint that I want to show you is if you right click on this and select View page source you can
since you understood the actual construction as web site you can begin to see where the source is coming
from.
So looks like the source is still coming from a static profile pics default underscore a profile PMG
so that hints to us that the actual submission of that form for the use case of updating our profile
picture isn't working yet.
So I want to come back to this account view and see if I need anything for actually updating the profile
picture and hopefully it's a simple fix.
All right.
Luckily for us it actually is a simple fix.
And the reason that our update wasn't working is if we come back to our template page for the account
that is account the H Tim L.
You'll notice that right now in our form at the very top we only specified method is equal to post.
And if you do a little research on this basically the way that these HVM all forms work is when you
make a post request like we're doing here you have to encode the data that forms the body of the request
in some way and you can actually Google search this.
But basically what we have to add here are two things.
One is we have to actually specify an action.
And in this case we can specify this be a blank string.
But we do want this action to be there.
And more importantly what we want is e n c t type.
So this attribute where you could do is you're going to set it to multipart slash form data and then
you're going to want to save those changes.
And again you can check out just by Google searching what this actually phrase means but it has to do
with the way you can upload files.
So if you're just uploading simple text then you don't actually need specify the sort of type the default
of your L and works.
But if we're actually uploading files like a CISC file an excel file or a PNB file we need to add in
these two attributes to our form tag.
So again you can Google search and you'll get lots of really nice answers as far as what this actually
means.
And it basically just explains that each team of forms in general has three methods of encoding and
if we're actually encoding some more complex file types that aren't just text being passed into the
form they need to actually specify multipart slash form dash data.
So if that being then let's go ahead and restart this and close this window here.
And we've added in the action and this attribute.
So let's run our application again and see if we can successfully actually update the photo.
So let's bring in our site again.
I'm going to register a new user.
So let's go ahead and have this register just be called for for the comm username for password before
and confirm password before will register that user and let's log them in.
So for for fore we'll log in and out and hit my account page.
I see that that default is working for me.
So let's try to update this and then choose some new file.
So I'll just choose this python logo.
I'll update.
And now it's actually working.
So the only changes we had actually make was to set up our team L4 to not just accept the default text
types but instead be actually able to accept more complex form data.
And the way you do that is by adding in those two lines right here.
OK.
So now we're able to successfully register users log in users and edit their accounts.
So we're essentially done with the users.
What we have to do now is begin to fill up the blog post applications that is creating a post updating
a post deleting a post and then at the end will update the home view actually show all the blog posts
for this particular company.
All right that's it for this lecture if you have any questions feel free to post to the Q&A forums.
We'll see if the next lecture.